# Compiled Vs Interpreted

Compiled languages and interpreted languages are two different approaches to executing code. Each have their own beneficial use cases explained with multiple programming language examples below. 

### Key Differences:
- In compiled languages (e.g., Go, C++), the code is translated into machine code before execution, which can make them faster and more efficient but less portable.
- In interpreted languages (e.g., Python, Perl), the code is executed directly by an interpreter, which makes them more portable but generally slower than compiled languages.

**Compiled Languages:**
  1. **Go (Golang):** Go is a statically typed and compiled language. When you write Go code, you need to compile it into machine code before you can run it. The Go compiler (gc) translates your Go code into an executable binary that can run on a specific platform.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
}
```

  2. **C++:** C++ is another compiled language. You write C++ code, which is then compiled into machine code by a C++ compiler (e.g., g++, clang++). The resulting binary is platform-specific.
    ```

**Interpreted Languages:**
  1. **Python:** Python is an interpreted language. In Python, the code is executed line by line by the Python interpreter. You don't need to compile Python code explicitly, allowing for portability across many operating systems naturally. Python comes default on many linux distributions because of this flexibility. 

```python
print("Hello, World!")
```

  2. **Perl:** Perl is also an interpreted language. Perl scripts are executed directly by the Perl interpreter without the need for compilation. Perl has seen less use cases over the past years with the influx of python usage but is still a great choice for many problems. 

Each approach has its advantages and use cases. Compiled languages are often preferred for performance-critical applications, while interpreted languages offer ease of development and cross-platform compatibility. Typically compiled languages require a deeper understanding of the underlying syntax and heuristics of the language as well as the various boundaries you have to be aware of. Languages like Python and Perl enable people from outside professions to be able to write code that works for their issue quickly and easily without worrying about dangling pointers and memory leaks. The code examples above show an example of this, 5 lines in Golang to Python's 1. 
